#============================================================= -*-perl-*-
#
# Template::Manual
#
# DESCRIPTION
#   This is the comprehensive user guide and reference manual for the
#   Template Toolkit.
#
# AUTHOR
#   Andy Wardley  <abw@andywardley.com>
#
# COPYRIGHT
#   Copyright (C) 1996-2001 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
#   Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.
#
#   This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
#   modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
#
# REVISION
#   
#
#========================================================================


#------------------------------------------------------------------------
# IMPORTANT NOTE
#   This documentation is generated automatically from source
#   templates.  Any changes you make here may be lost.
# 
#   The 'docsrc' documentation source bundle is available for download
#   from http://www.template-toolkit.org/docs.html and contains all
#   the source templates, XML files, scripts, etc., from which the
#   documentation for the Template Toolkit is built.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

Template::Manual - User guide and reference manual for the Template Toolkit

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the comprehensive user guide and reference manual for the
Template Toolkit.

=over 4

=item L<Template::Manual::Intro|Template::Manual::Intro>

Introduction to the Template Toolkit

This section provides a general introduction to the Template Toolkit,
giving a quick overview of features, examples of template directives
and use of the Template.pm module. It also described the basic concept
underlying the toolkit: the separation of presentation elements from
application logic and data.

=item L<Template::Manual::Syntax|Template::Manual::Syntax>

Directive syntax, structure and semantics

This section describes the syntax, structure and semantics of the
Template Toolkit directives and general presentation language.

=item L<Template::Manual::Directives|Template::Manual::Directives>

Template directives

This section provides a reference of all Template Toolkit directives,
complete with examples of use.

=item L<Template::Manual::Variables|Template::Manual::Variables>

Template variables and code bindings

This section describes the different ways in which Perl data can be
bound to template variables and accessed via Template Toolkit
directives.

=item L<Template::Manual::VMethods|Template::Manual::VMethods>

Virtual Methods

The Template Toolkit provides virtual methods for manipulating variable
values. Most of them are analogous to regular Perl functions of the
same names. This section describes the different virtual methods that
can be applied to scalar, list and hash values.

=item L<Template::Manual::Config|Template::Manual::Config>

Configuration options

This section contains details of all the configuration options that can
be used to customise the behaviour and extend the features of the
Template Toolkit.

=item L<Template::Manual::Filters|Template::Manual::Filters>

Standard filters

This section lists all the standard filters distributed with the
Template Toolkit for post-processing output.

=item L<Template::Manual::Plugins|Template::Manual::Plugins>

Standard plugins

This section lists the standard plugins which can be used to extend the
runtime functionality of the Template Toolkit. The plugins are
distributed with the Template Toolkit but may required additional
modules from CPAN.

=item L<Template::Manual::Internals|Template::Manual::Internals>

Template Toolkit internals

This document provides an overview of the internal architecture of the
Template Toolkit. It is a work in progress and is far from complete,
currently providing little more than an overview of how the major
components fit together. Nevertheless, it's a good starting point for
anyone wishing to delve into the source code to find out how it all
works.

=item L<Template::Manual::Views|Template::Manual::Views>

Template Toolkit views (experimental)

This section describes dynamic views: a powerful but experimental new
feature in version 2.01 of the Template Toolkit.

=item L<Template::Manual::Refs|Template::Manual::Refs>

Related modules, projects and other resources

This section provides references to external modules, projects and
other resources related to the Template Toolkit.

=item L<Template::Manual::Credits|Template::Manual::Credits>

Author and contributor credits

This section provides a brief history of the Template Toolkit and
details the primary author and numerous other people who have
contributed to it.



=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley E<lt>abw@andywardley.comE<gt>

L<http://www.andywardley.com/|http://www.andywardley.com/>




=head1 VERSION

Template Toolkit version 2.13, released on 30 January 2004.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright (C) 1996-2004 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
  Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.



=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# perl-indent-level: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
#
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
