#============================================================= -*-perl-*-
#
# Template::Toolkit
#
# DESCRIPTION

#
# AUTHOR
#   Andy Wardley  <abw@wardley.org>
#
# COPYRIGHT
#   Copyright (C) 1996-2007 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
#
#   This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
#   modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
#
# REVISION
#   2.75
#
#========================================================================


#------------------------------------------------------------------------
# IMPORTANT NOTE
#   This documentation is generated automatically from source
#   templates.  Any changes you make here may be lost.
# 
#   The 'docsrc' documentation source bundle is available for download
#   from http://www.template-toolkit.org/docs.html and contains all
#   the source templates, XML files, scripts, etc., from which the
#   documentation for the Template Toolkit is built.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

Template::Toolkit - Template processing system

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    $ perldoc Template              # docs for the Template Perl module

    $ perldoc Template::Manual      # Template Toolkit manual

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Template Toolkit is a collection of Perl modules which implement a
fast, flexible, powerful and extensible template processing system.

It was originally designed and remains primarily useful for generating
dynamic web content.  Howver it can be used equally well for
processing any other kind of text based documents including HTML, XML,
POD, PostScript, LaTeX and plain old text.

The Template::Manual documentation contains further information about
the Template Toolkit and a full reference of all the features,
directives, configuration options and so on.

    $ perldoc Template::Manual

The Template module is the front-end to the Template Toolkit for Perl
programmers.  The documentation for that module relates specifically
to using the module from Perl programs.  

    $ perldoc Template

Please note that there is no Template::Toolkit Perl module, just this
documentation pointing people to the right place.  

You're welcome to refer to TT as "Template Toolkit" or
"Template::Toolkit" if you prefer.  The official line is that we talk
about the "Template Toolkit" software and the "Template" Perl module.
But we're not the kind of officials who would get all official on you.

You don't need to be a Perl programmer to use the Template Toolkit.
The F<tpage> and F<ttree> scripts allow you to process templates from
the command line.  See the documentation for those scripts for further
information.

    $ perldoc tpage
    $ perldoc ttree

Finally, don't forget to check out the Template Toolkit web site.

    http://template-toolkit.org/

Yes, we know it doesn't look very pretty and should use CSS instead of
tables for layout.  We'll have a shiny new web site when TT3 is
released.  In case you're wondering, that'll be on Tuesday some time
shortly after lunch...

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley E<lt>abw@wardley.orgE<gt>

L<http://wardley.org/|http://wardley.org/>




=head1 VERSION

2.75, distributed as part of the
Template Toolkit version 2.18, released on 09 February 2007.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright (C) 1996-2007 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.


This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Template|Template>, L<Template::Manual|Template::Manual>

=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# perl-indent-level: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
#
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
