#============================================================= -*-perl-*-
#
# Template::Tutorial
#
# DESCRIPTION
#   This section includes tutorials on using the Template Toolkit.
#   Subjects currently include an general overview of the Template
#   Toolkit, showing users how to get quickly up to speed building web
#   content, and a tutorial on generating and using data files, with
#   particular reference to XML.
#
# AUTHOR
#   Andy Wardley  <abw@andywardley.com>
#
# COPYRIGHT
#   Copyright (C) 1996-2001 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
#   Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.
#
#   This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
#   modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
#
# REVISION
#   
#
#========================================================================


#------------------------------------------------------------------------
# IMPORTANT NOTE
#   This documentation is generated automatically from source
#   templates.  Any changes you make here may be lost.
# 
#   The 'docsrc' documentation source bundle is available for download
#   from http://www.template-toolkit.org/docs.html and contains all
#   the source templates, XML files, scripts, etc., from which the
#   documentation for the Template Toolkit is built.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

Template::Tutorial - Template Toolkit Tutorials

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This section includes tutorials on using the Template Toolkit. Subjects
currently include an general overview of the Template Toolkit, showing
users how to get quickly up to speed building web content, and a
tutorial on generating and using data files, with particular reference
to XML.

=over 4

=item L<Template::Tutorial::Web|Template::Tutorial::Web>

Generating Web Content Using the Template Toolkit

This tutorial provides an introduction to the Template Toolkit and a
"quick start" guide to getting up to speed. Its primarily focus is on
using the Template Toolkit to build web content and it covers 4 basic
areas: using tpage and ttree; using the Template.pm module in CGI
scripts; writing Apache/mod_perl handlers; and extending the toolkit by
writing plugins.

=item L<Template::Tutorial::Datafile|Template::Tutorial::Datafile>

Creating Data Output Files Using the Template Toolkit

This tutorial gives an overview of the Template Toolkit, showing in
particular how to use it to read and write data files in various
different formats and styles. It was written by Dave Cross and first
appeared as a lead article at http://www.perl.com/ earlier in the year
(2001).



=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley E<lt>abw@andywardley.comE<gt>

L<http://www.andywardley.com/|http://www.andywardley.com/>




=head1 VERSION

Template Toolkit version 2.13, released on 30 January 2004.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright (C) 1996-2004 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
  Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.



=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# perl-indent-level: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
#
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
