#============================================================= -*-perl-*-
#
# Template::Library::HTML
#
# DESCRIPTION

#
# AUTHOR
#   Andy Wardley  <abw@wardley.org>
#
# COPYRIGHT
#   Copyright (C) 1996-2007 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
#
#   This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
#   modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
#
# REVISION
#   2.68
#
#========================================================================


#------------------------------------------------------------------------
# IMPORTANT NOTE
#   This documentation is generated automatically from source
#   templates.  Any changes you make here may be lost.
# 
#   The 'docsrc' documentation source bundle is available for download
#   from http://www.template-toolkit.org/docs.html and contains all
#   the source templates, XML files, scripts, etc., from which the
#   documentation for the Template Toolkit is built.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

Template::Library::HTML - Template library for building basic HTML pages

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<NOTE:> This documentation is incomplete and may be incorrect
in places. 

The 'html' template library is distributed as part of the Template
Toolkit.  It can be found in the 'templates' sub-directory of the
installation directory.

    use Template;

    my $tt2 = Template->new({
	INCLUDE_PATH => '/usr/local/tt2/templates',
    });

For a portable way to determine the installation 'templates' directory,
you can use the C<Template::Config-E<gt>instdir()> class method.

    use Template;

    my $tt2 = Template->new({
	INCLUDE_PATH => Template::Config->instdir('templates'),
    });

You should now be able to access the html library as, for example:

    [% INCLUDE html/header %]

Note that some of the more basic elements don't give you much more
than the raw HTML tags.  In many cases you might be well advised to
stick to regular HTML rather than complicating matters by the use
of template elements.

e.g.

    <table>
      . . .
    </table>

vs

    [% WRAPPER html/table %]
       . . .
    [% END %]

However, the use of template elements to generate the underlying HTML
does have some important benefits, particularly as the constructs start
to get more complicated and more magical.

See the example in the 'examples' sub-directory of the distribution
directory for further examples and enlightenment on using this library.

=head2 Headers, Footers and Pages

=over 4

=item header

The 'header' element generates the regular header required as the 
pre-amble for an HTML document.  That is, everything from the initial
E<lt>htmlE<gt> to the opening E<lt>bodyE<gt>.

    [% INCLUDE html/header
         title = 'This is a Test'
	 bgcol = '#ffffff'
    %]

Additional header items can be provided by explicitly setting the 'headers'
variable, e.g.

    [% headers = BLOCK %]
    <META name="description" content="Template Toolkit">
    <META name="REVISIT-AFTER" content="14 days">	
    <META name="keywords" content="Templates, Web, ...etc...">
    [% END %]

    [% INCLUDE html/header
	 title = 'This is a Test'
	 bgcol = '#ffffff'
    %]

=item footer

The 'footer' element generates the terminating E<lt>/bodyE<gt> and
E<lt>/htmlE<gt> element to balance the header.

    [% PROCESS html/header %]

    ...page content here...

    [% PROCESS html/footer %]

=item page

The 'page' element combines the 'html/header' and 'html/footer' elements.

    [% WRAPPER html/page %]

    ...page content here...

    [% END %]

Page content should be defined in the 'content' variable (e.g. via WRAPPER).
Additional HTML headers should be defined in the 'headers' variable.

    [% WRAPPER html/page
        headers = '<META name="keywords" content="foo, bar, ...">'
    %]

    ...page content here...

    [% END %]

=back

=head2 Tables, Bars and Boxes

=over 4

=item table

A basic element for creating HTML tables.

    [% WRAPPER html/table pad=10 space=4 col='#404040' %]
       <tr>
	<td>Hello</td> <td>World</td>
       </tr>
    [% END %]

The following variables may be defined:

=over 4

=item border

Set the border width (default: 0)

=item col

Set the background colour (default: none).

=item width

Set a fixed table width.

=item pad

Set the cellpadding.

=item space

Set the cellspacing.

=item content

Content for the box.  Supplied automatically if used via WRAPPER.

=back

=item row

A basic element for creating HTML table rows.

    [% WRAPPER html/table %]
       [% WRAPPER html/row %]
	<td>Hello</td> <td>World</td>
       [% END %]
    [% END %]

The following variables may be defined:

=over 4

=item col

Set the background colour (default: none).

=item valign

Set the vertical alignment.

=item rowspan

Specify the number of rows to span.

=item content

Content for the box.  Supplied automatically if used via WRAPPER.

=back

=item cell

A basic element for creating HTML table cells.

    [% WRAPPER html/table %]
       [% WRAPPER html/row %]
	  [% INCLUDE html/cell 
		FOREACH content = ['Hello', 'World'] %]
       [% END %]
    [% END %]

The following variables may be defined:

=over 4

=item col

Set the background colour (default: none).

=item align

Set the horizontal alignment.

=item colspan

Specify the number of columns to span.

=item content

Content for the cell.  Supplied automatically if used via WRAPPER.

=back

=item bar

The bar element is a wrapping of html/table + html/row.

    [% WRAPPER html/bar %]
       <td>Foo</td>  <td>Bar</td>
    [% END %]

=item box

The box element is a wrapping of html/table + html/row + html/cell

    [% WRAPPER html/box %]
       Hello World!
    [% END %]

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley E<lt>abw@wardley.orgE<gt>

L<http://wardley.org/|http://wardley.org/>




=head1 VERSION

2.68, distributed as part of the
Template Toolkit version 2.18, released on 09 February 2007.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright (C) 1996-2007 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.


This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Template::Library::Splash|Template::Library::Splash>

=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# perl-indent-level: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
#
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
