#============================================================= -*-perl-*-
#
# Template::Library::PostScript
#
# DESCRIPTION
#   This library contains a number of useful templates for generating
#   PostScript pages.
#
# AUTHOR
#   Andy Wardley  <abw@andywardley.com>
#
# COPYRIGHT
#   Copyright (C) 1996-2001 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
#   Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.
#
#   This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
#   modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
#
# REVISION
#   2.69
#
#========================================================================


#------------------------------------------------------------------------
# IMPORTANT NOTE
#   This documentation is generated automatically from source
#   templates.  Any changes you make here may be lost.
# 
#   The 'docsrc' documentation source bundle is available for download
#   from http://www.template-toolkit.org/docs.html and contains all
#   the source templates, XML files, scripts, etc., from which the
#   documentation for the Template Toolkit is built.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

Template::Library::PostScript - Template library for generating PostScript

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The PostScript library contains a number of templates for generating
PostScript pages.  It's very new, very incomplete, very ad-hoc and
isn't yet documented.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley E<lt>abw@andywardley.comE<gt>

L<http://www.andywardley.com/|http://www.andywardley.com/>




=head1 VERSION

2.69, distributed as part of the
Template Toolkit version 2.13, released on 30 January 2004.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright (C) 1996-2004 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
  Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.



=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# perl-indent-level: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
#
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
