#============================================================= -*-perl-*-
#
# Template::Manual::Credits
#
# DESCRIPTION
#   This section provides a brief history of the Template Toolkit and
#   details the primary author and numerous other people who have
#   contributed to it.
#
# AUTHOR
#   Andy Wardley  <abw@andywardley.com>
#
# COPYRIGHT
#   Copyright (C) 1996-2001 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
#   Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.
#
#   This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
#   modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
#
# REVISION
#   
#
#========================================================================


#------------------------------------------------------------------------
# IMPORTANT NOTE
#   This documentation is generated automatically from source
#   templates.  Any changes you make here may be lost.
# 
#   The 'docsrc' documentation source bundle is available for download
#   from http://www.template-toolkit.org/docs.html and contains all
#   the source templates, XML files, scripts, etc., from which the
#   documentation for the Template Toolkit is built.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

Template::Manual::Credits - Author and contributor credits

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This section provides a brief history of the Template Toolkit and
details the primary author and numerous other people who have
contributed to it.

=head1 HISTORY

The Template Toolkit began its life as the Text::MetaText module,
originally released to CPAN around 1996.  This itself was the public
manifestation of an earlier template processing system I developed
while working at Peritas (now Knowledge Pool -
 http://www.knowledgepool.com/)

Text::MetaText was the prototype - the one we always planned to throw
away.  It did the job well, showing us what worked and what didn't, what
was good and what was bad, and gave us some ideas about what could be
done better, given the chance to start again from scratch.

Some time late in 1998 I threw away the prototype and started work on
the Template Toolkit.  By then I was working at Canon Research Centre
Europe Ltd. (http://www.cre.canon.co.uk), involved in a general
research programme related to web publishing and dynamic content
generation.  The first alpha release was in June 1999, followed by
numerous more alpha and beta releases culminating in 1.00 being
released on 2nd December 1999.

A month or so later, work had begun on version 2.00.  The plan was to
get the template language relatively stable in version 1.00 and not
worry too much about performance or other internal matters.  Then,
version 2.00 would follow to improve performance, clean up the
architecture and fix anything that, with the benefit of hindsight, we
thought could be improved.  As it happens, me starting work on version
2.00 coincided with Doug Steinwand sending me his parser variant which
compiled templates to Perl code, giving a major performance boost.  
As well as the speedups, there are a whole host of significant new 
features in version 2.00, and a greatly improved internal architecture.
Apart from a few minor "fixups" the template directives and language 
have remained the same as in version 1.00

Version 2.00 was available in beta release form in July 2000, just 
in time for the 4th Perl Conference where version 1.00 was awarded
"Best New Perl Module".  After another extended beta release period,
version 2.00 was released on 1st December 2000.




=head1 CONTRIBUTORS 

Many people have contributed ideas, inspiration, fixes and features to
the Template Toolkit.  Their efforts continue to be very much appreciated.  
Please let me know if you think anyone is missing from this list.

  Chuck Adams               <scrytch@uswest.net>
  Stephen Adkins            <stephen.adkins@officevision.com>
  Ivan Adzhubey             <iadzhubey@rics.bwh.harvard.edu>
  Mark Anderson             <mda@discerning.com>
  Bradley Baetz             <bbaetz@student.usyd.edu.au>
  Thierry-Michel Barral     <kktos@electron-libre.com>
  Craig Barratt             <craig@arraycomm.com>
  Stas Bekman               <stas@stason.org>
  Tony Bowden               <tony-tt@kasei.com>
  Neil Bowers               <neilb@cre.canon.co.uk>
  Leon Brocard              <acme@astray.com>  
  Lyle Brooks               <brooks@deseret.com>
  Dave Cash                 <dave@gnofn.org>
  Piers Cawley              <pdcawley@bofh.org.uk>
  Darren Chamberlain        <dlc@users.sourceforge.net>
  Eric Cholet               <cholet@logilune.com>
  Dave Cross                <dave@dave.org.uk>
  Chris Dean                <ctdean@babycenter.com>  
  Francois Desarmenien      <desar@club-internet.fr>
  Horst Dumcke              <hdumcke@cisco.com> 
  Mark Fowler               <mark@indicosoftware.com>
  Michael Fowler            <michael@shoebox.net>    
  Axel Gerstmair            <anthill@web.de>
  Dylan William Hardison    <dylanwh@tampabay.rr.com>
  Perrin Harkins            <pharkins@etoys.com>
  Bryce Harrington          <bryce@osdl.org>
  Dave Hodgkinson           <daveh@davehodgkinson.com>
  Harald Joerg              <Harald.Joerg@fujitsu-siemens.com>
  Colin Johnson             <colin@knowledgepool.com>
  Vivek Khera               <khera@kciLink.com>
  Rafael Kitover            <caelum@debian.org>
  Ivan Kurmanov             <http://www.ahinea.com>
  Hans von Lengerke         <hans@lengerke.org>
  Jonas Liljegren           <jonas@paranormal.se>
  Simon Luff                <simon@sports.com>
  Paul Makepeace            <Paul.Makepeace@realprogrammers.com>
  Gervase Markham           <gerv@mozilla.org>
  Simon Matthews            <sam@knowledgepool.com>
  Robert McArthur           <mcarthur@dstc.edu.au>
  Craig McLane              <mclanec@oxy.edu>     
  Leslie Michael Orchard    <deus_x@ninjacode.com>
  Eugene Miretskiy          <eugene@invision.net>
  Tatsuhiko Miyagawa        <miyagawa@edge.co.jp>
  Keith G. Murphy           <keithmur@mindspring.com>
  Chris Nandor              <pudge@pobox.com>
  Briac Pilpré              <briac@pilpre.com>
  Martin Portman            <mrp@cre.canon.co.uk>
  Slaven Rezic              <slaven.rezic@berlin.de>
  Christian Schaffner       <schaffner@eeh.ee.ethz.ch>
  Randal L. Schwartz        <merlyn@stonehenge.com>
  Paul Sharpe               <paul@miraclefish.com>
  Ville Skyttä              <ville.skytta@iki.fi>
  Doug Steinwand            <dsteinwand@etoys.com>
  Michael Stevens           <michael@etla.org>
  Drew Taylor               <dtaylor@vialogix.com>   
  Swen Thuemmler            <Swen.Thuemmler@paderlinx.de>   
  Richard Tietjen           <Richard_Tietjen@mcgraw-hill.com>
  Stathy G. Touloumis       <stathy.touloumis@edventions.com>
  Jim Vaughan               <jim@mrjim.com> 
  Simon Wilcox              <simonw@simonwilcox.co.uk>
  Chris Winters             <cwinters@intes.net>

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley E<lt>abw@andywardley.comE<gt>

L<http://www.andywardley.com/|http://www.andywardley.com/>




=head1 VERSION

Template Toolkit version 2.13, released on 30 January 2004.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright (C) 1996-2004 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
  Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.



=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# perl-indent-level: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
#
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
