#============================================================= -*-perl-*-
#
# Template::Manual::Refs
#
# DESCRIPTION
#   This section provides references to external modules, projects and
#   other resources related to the Template Toolkit.
#
# AUTHOR
#   Andy Wardley  <abw@andywardley.com>
#
# COPYRIGHT
#   Copyright (C) 1996-2001 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
#   Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.
#
#   This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
#   modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
#
# REVISION
#   
#
#========================================================================


#------------------------------------------------------------------------
# IMPORTANT NOTE
#   This documentation is generated automatically from source
#   templates.  Any changes you make here may be lost.
# 
#   The 'docsrc' documentation source bundle is available for download
#   from http://www.template-toolkit.org/docs.html and contains all
#   the source templates, XML files, scripts, etc., from which the
#   documentation for the Template Toolkit is built.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

Template::Manual::Refs - Related modules, projects and other resources

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This section provides references to external modules, projects and
other resources related to the Template Toolkit.

=head2 Resources

The Template Toolkit web site contains the latest information, news and 
other resources.

    http://www.template-toolkit.org/

A mailing list exists for up-to-date information on the Template Toolkit
and for following and contributing to the development process.  To 
subscribe, send an email to

    templates-request@template-toolkit.org

with the message 'subscribe' in the body.  You can also use the web 
interface to subscribe or browse the archives:

    http://www.template-toolkit.org/mailman/listinfo/templates

The F<tpage> and F<ttree> scripts are distributed and installed along
with the Template Toolkit.  The F<tpage> script simply processes named 
files or STDIN if unspecified, using a default Template object.  The 
F<ttree> script can be used to process entire directory trees of templates,
allowing large content systems such as web sites to be rebuilt from a 
single command or configuration file.

    perldoc tpage
    perldoc ttree

The F<Template::Tutorial> document provides an introduction to the Template
Toolkit and shows some typical examples of usage.

    perldoc Template::Tutorial

You may also like to consult the paper 'Building and Managing Web Systems
with the Template Toolkit' and accompanying slides from the presentation
at the 4th Perl Conference.  These are available from the Template
Toolkit web site:

    http://www.template-toolkit.org/docs.html



=head2 Projects

There are a number of other projects related to the Template Toolkit.

=over 4

=item OpenInteract

OpenInteract is a robust web application framework built to run under
Apache and mod_perl using the Template Toolkit as a foundation.

    http://www.openinteract.org/

=item Apache::Template

This is an Apache/mod_perl interface to the Template Toolkit.  Available
from CPAN in the directory:

    http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Apache/

=item AxKit::Template

AxKit is Matt Sergeant's Apache XML Delivery Toolkit.  AxKit::Template
provides an interface between AxKit and the Template Toolkit.  Available
from CPAN in the directory:

    http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Apache/

=item Slashcode

Slashcode is the code which runs Slashdot.  Version 2 uses the
Template Toolkit for generating the user interface from database
driven template.

    http://slashcode.org/

=item OpenFrame

OpenFrame is an open source application framework for distributed
media applications. It ships with a generator for the Template
Toolkit.

    http://openframe.fotango.com/

=item PCMT

PCMT is the Personal Content Management Toolkit. It uses the Template
Toolkit as the presentation engine.

    http://pcmt.sf.net/

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley E<lt>abw@andywardley.comE<gt>

L<http://www.andywardley.com/|http://www.andywardley.com/>




=head1 VERSION

Template Toolkit version 2.13, released on 30 January 2004.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright (C) 1996-2004 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
  Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.



=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# perl-indent-level: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
#
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
