
#------------------------------------------------------------------------
# IMPORTANT NOTE
#   This documentation is generated automatically from source
#   templates.  Any changes you make here may be lost.
# 
#   The 'docsrc' documentation source bundle is available for download
#   from http://www.template-toolkit.org/docs.html and contains all
#   the source templates, XML files, scripts, etc., from which the
#   documentation for the Template Toolkit is built.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

Template::Tools::tpage - Process templates from command line

=head1 USAGE

    tpage [ --define var=value ] file(s)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<tpage> script is a simple wrapper around the Template Toolkit processor.
Files specified by name on the command line are processed in turn by the 
template processor and the resulting output is sent to STDOUT and can be 
redirected accordingly.  e.g.

    tpage myfile > myfile.out
    tpage header myfile footer > myfile.html

If no file names are specified on the command line then B<tpage> will read
STDIN for input.

The C<--define> option can be used to set the values of template variables.
e.g.

    tpage --define author="Andy Wardley" skeleton.pm > MyModule.pm

See L<Template> for general information about the Perl Template 
Toolkit and the template language and features.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley E<lt>abw@andywardley.comE<gt>

L<http://www.andywardley.com/|http://www.andywardley.com/>




=head1 VERSION

2.69, distributed as part of the
Template Toolkit version 2.13, released on 30 January 2004.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright (C) 1996-2004 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
  Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ttree|Template::Tools::ttree>

=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# perl-indent-level: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
#
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
