
#------------------------------------------------------------------------
# IMPORTANT NOTE
#   This documentation is generated automatically from source
#   templates.  Any changes you make here may be lost.
# 
#   The 'docsrc' documentation source bundle is available for download
#   from http://www.template-toolkit.org/docs.html and contains all
#   the source templates, XML files, scripts, etc., from which the
#   documentation for the Template Toolkit is built.
#------------------------------------------------------------------------

=head1 NAME

Template::Tools::ttree - Process entire directory trees of templates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    ttree [options] [files]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<ttree> script is used to process entire directory trees containing
template files.  The resulting output from processing each file is then 
written to a corresponding file in a destination directory.  The script
compares the modification times of source and destination files (where
they already exist) and processes only those files that have been modified.
In other words, it is the equivalent of 'make' for the Template Toolkit.

It supports a number of options which can be used to configure
behaviour, define locations and set Template Toolkit options.  The
script first reads the F<.ttreerc> configuration file in the HOME
directory, or an alternative file specified in the TTREERC environment
variable.  Then, it processes any command line arguments, including
any additional configuration files specified via the B<-f> (file) option.

A typical F<.ttreerc> file might look like this:

    src    = /home/abw/websrc/doc
    dest   = /home/abw/public_html
    lib    = /home/abw/websrc/lib
    lib    = /usr/local/templates/lib
    cfg    = /home/abw/.ttree
    ignore = \b(CVS|RCS)\b
    ignore = ^#
    copy   = \.(gif|png)$ 
    accept = \.[ah]tml$

The B<src> option indicates a directory containing the template files
to be processed.  A list of files may be specified on the command line
and each will be processed in turn, writing the generated output to a
corresponding file in the B<dest> directory.  If no files are
explicitly named then all files in the B<src> directory will be
processed.  The B<-r> (recurse) option will also cause sub-directories
to be searched for files.  A source file is only processed if it has a
later modification time than any corresponding destination file.
Files will always be processed, regardless of modification times, if
they are named explicitly on the command line, or the B<-a> (all)
option is used.

The B<lib> option may be specified any number of times to indicate
directories in which the Template Toolkit should look for other
template files (INCLUDE_PATH) that it may need to INCLUDE or PROCESS,
but don't represent complete documents that should be processed in
their own right (e.g. headers, footers, menu).  The B<cfg> directory
specifies the location of additional configuration files that may be
loaded via the B<-f> option.  

The B<ignore>, B<copy> and B<accept> options are used to specify Perl
regexen to filter file names.  Files that match any of the B<ignore>
options will not be processed.  Remaining files that match any of the
B<copy> regexen will be copied to the destination directory.  Remaining
files that then match any of the B<accept> criteria are then processed
via the Template Toolkit.  If no B<accept> parameter is specified then 
all files will be accepted for processing if not already copied or
 ignored.

Additional options may be used to set Template Toolkit parameters.
For example:

   interpolate        
   post_chomp         
   pre_process  = header
   post_process = footer
   perl5lib     = /home/abw/lib/perl5

See B<ttree --help> for a summary of options.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley E<lt>abw@kfs.orgE<gt>

L<http://www.andywardley.com/|http://www.andywardley.com/>




=head1 VERSION

2.08, distributed as part of the
Template Toolkit version 2.03, released on 14 June 2001.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright (C) 1996-2001 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.
  Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Canon Research Centre Europe Ltd.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<tpage|Template::Tools::tpage>
